README.md, before:

# Verify your users by call or SMS

[![PHPStan](https://github.com/worksome/verify-by-phone/actions/workflows/phpstan.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/worksome/verify-by-phone/actions/workflows/phpstan.yml)
[![run-tests](https://github.com/worksome/verify-by-phone/actions/workflows/run-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/worksome/verify-by-phone/actions/workflows/run-tests.yml)

It's a common practice: a user signs up, you send an SMS to their phone with a code, they enter that code in your
application and they're off to the races.

This package makes it simple to add this capability to your Laravel application.

## Installation

You can install the package via composer:

```bash
composer require worksome/verify-by-phone
```

You can publish the config file by running:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag="verify-by-phone-config"
```

## Configuration

This package is built to support multiple verification services. The primary service
is [Twilio](https://www.twilio.com/). You may configure the service in the config file at `config/verify-by-phone.php`
under `driver`, or by using the dedicated `.env` variable: `VERIFY_BY_PHONE_DRIVER`.

### `twilio`

To use our Twilio integration, you'll need to provide an `account_sid`, `auth_token` and `verify_sid`. All of these can
be set in the `config/verify-by-phone.php` file under `services.twilio`.

By default, the Twilio integration will delegate the creation, storage and verification of codes to the Twilio platform.
However, we also provide support for creating, storing and verifying codes locally. This speeds up the process of verification
for your end users. To enable support for this, set the `services.twilio.generate_codes_locally` config variable to `true` in the `config/verify-by-phone.php` file.
Local verification codes will expire after 10 minutes.

> Note that your verification codes will be stored using your configured Laravel cache driver.

## Usage

To use this package, you'll want to inject the `\Worksome\VerifyByPhone\Contracts\PhoneVerificationService`
contract into your application. Let's imagine that you want to send the verification code in a controller method:

```php
public function sendVerificationCode(Request $request, PhoneVerificationService $verificationService)
{
    // Send a verification code to the given number
    $verificationService->send(new PhoneNumber($request->input('phone')));
    
    return redirect(route('home'))->with('message', 'Verification code sent!');
}
```

It's as simple as that! Note that we are using `\Propaganistas\LaravelPhone\PhoneNumber` to safely parse numbers in
different formats.

Now, when a user receives their verification code, you'll want to check that it is valid. Use the `verify` method for
this:

```php
public function verifyCode(Request $request, PhoneVerificationService $verificationService)
{
    // Verify the verification code for the given phone number
    $valid = $verificationService->verify(
        new PhoneNumber($request->input('phone')), 
        $request->input('code')
    );
    
    if ($valid) {
        // Mark your user as valid
    }
}
```

The first parameter is the phone number (again using `\Propaganistas\LaravelPhone\PhoneNumber`), and the second is the
verification code provided by the user.

## Validation rule

We offer a rule to make it easy to verify a verification code during validation.

> Be aware that this rule will call the `verify` method of the `PhoneVerificationService` contract, and likely will
> make an HTTP request.

```php
Validator::validate($request->all(), [
    'phone_number' => ['required'],
    'verification_code' => ['required', Rule::verificationCodeIsValid('phone_number')],
]);
```

If your data doesn't include the phone number, you may instead pass it in manually:

```php
Validator::validate($request->all(), [
    'verification_code' => ['required', Rule::verificationCodeIsValid('+441174960123')],
]);
```

We extend the `Rule` class for visual consistency with other rules, but you can also use the `VerificationCodeIsValid` rule directly for
better IDE support:

```php
Validator::validate($request->all(), [
    'verification_code' => ['required', new VerificationCodeIsValid('+441174960123')],
]);
```

This rule will also handle the case where the verification code has expired and return a suitable error message.

## Artisan commands

This package ships with a couple of artisan commands that allow you to send and verify verification codes.

```bash
# Send a verication code to the given phone number
php artisan verify-by-phone:send "+441174960123"

# Check that a given verication code is valid for the given phone number
php artisan verify-by-phone:verify "+441174960123" 1234
```

The verify command will return a console failure if verification fails.

## Testing

When writing tests, you likely do not want to make real requests to services such as Twilio. To support testing, we
provide a
`FakeVerificationService` that can be used to mock the verification service. To use it, you should set an `env` variable
in your `phpunit.xml` with the following value:

```xml

<env name='VERIFY_BY_PHONE_DRIVER' value='null'/>
```

Alternatively, you may manually swap out the integration in your test via using the `swap` method. The fake
implementation has some useful testing methods you can use:

```php
it('tests something to do with SMS verification', function () {
    $service = new FakeVerificationService();
    $this->swap(PhoneVerificationService::class, $service);
   
    // Customise what happens when calling `send`
    $service->sendUsing(fn () => throw new Exception('Something went wrong'));
    
    // Customise what happens when calling `verify`
    $service->verifyUsing(fn () => throw new Exception('Something went wrong'));
    
    // Throw a VerificationCodeExpiredException
    $service->actAsThoughTheVerificationCodeExpired();
    
    // Assert that a verification was "sent" on the given number
    $service->assertSentVerification(new PhoneNumber('+441174960123'));
});
```

You may execute this project's tests by running:

```bash
composer test
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Security Vulnerabilities

Please review [our security policy](../../security/policy) on how to report security vulnerabilities.

## Credits

- [Luke Downing](https://github.com/lukeraymonddowning)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Adds event and listener for informing twilio service after verification.

README.md, after:

# Verify your users by call or SMS

[![PHPStan](https://github.com/worksome/verify-by-phone/actions/workflows/phpstan.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/worksome/verify-by-phone/actions/workflows/phpstan.yml)
[![run-tests](https://github.com/worksome/verify-by-phone/actions/workflows/run-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/worksome/verify-by-phone/actions/workflows/run-tests.yml)

It's a common practice: a user signs up, you send an SMS to their phone with a code, they enter that code in your
application and they're off to the races.

This package makes it simple to add this capability to your Laravel application.

## Installation

You can install the package via composer:

```bash
composer require worksome/verify-by-phone
```

You can publish the config file by running:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag="verify-by-phone-config"
```

## Configuration

This package is built to support multiple verification services. The primary service
is [Twilio](https://www.twilio.com/). You may configure the service in the config file at `config/verify-by-phone.php`
under `driver`, or by using the dedicated `.env` variable: `VERIFY_BY_PHONE_DRIVER`.

### `twilio`

To use our Twilio integration, you'll need to provide an `account_sid`, `auth_token` and `verify_sid`. All of these can
be set in the `config/verify-by-phone.php` file under `services.twilio`.

By default, the Twilio integration will delegate the creation, storage and verification of codes to the Twilio platform.
However, we also provide support for creating, storing and verifying codes locally. This speeds up the process of verification
for your end users. To enable support for this, set the `services.twilio.generate_codes_locally` config variable to `true` in the `config/verify-by-phone.php` file.
Local verification codes will expire after 10 minutes.

> Note that your verification codes will be stored using your configured Laravel cache driver.

Of course, when using locally generated codes, we still need to update Twilio with the status of the verification. To support this, we will automatically dispatch a queued listener
to update Twilio after a verification is completed.

## Usage

To use this package, you'll want to inject the `\Worksome\VerifyByPhone\Contracts\PhoneVerificationService`
contract into your application. Let's imagine that you want to send the verification code in a controller method:

```php
public function sendVerificationCode(Request $request, PhoneVerificationService $verificationService)
{
    // Send a verification code to the given number
    $verificationService->send(new PhoneNumber($request->input('phone')));
    
    return redirect(route('home'))->with('message', 'Verification code sent!');
}
```

It's as simple as that! Note that we are using `\Propaganistas\LaravelPhone\PhoneNumber` to safely parse numbers in
different formats.

Now, when a user receives their verification code, you'll want to check that it is valid. Use the `verify` method for
this:

```php
public function verifyCode(Request $request, PhoneVerificationService $verificationService)
{
    // Verify the verification code for the given phone number
    $valid = $verificationService->verify(
        new PhoneNumber($request->input('phone')), 
        $request->input('code')
    );
    
    if ($valid) {
        // Mark your user as valid
    }
}
```

The first parameter is the phone number (again using `\Propaganistas\LaravelPhone\PhoneNumber`), and the second is the
verification code provided by the user.

## Validation rule

We offer a rule to make it easy to verify a verification code during validation.

> Be aware that this rule will call the `verify` method of the `PhoneVerificationService` contract, and likely will
> make an HTTP request.

```php
Validator::validate($request->all(), [
    'phone_number' => ['required'],
    'verification_code' => ['required', Rule::verificationCodeIsValid('phone_number')],
]);
```

If your data doesn't include the phone number, you may instead pass it in manually:

```php
Validator::validate($request->all(), [
    'verification_code' => ['required', Rule::verificationCodeIsValid('+441174960123')],
]);
```

We extend the `Rule` class for visual consistency with other rules, but you can also use the `VerificationCodeIsValid` rule directly for
better IDE support:

```php
Validator::validate($request->all(), [
    'verification_code' => ['required', new VerificationCodeIsValid('+441174960123')],
]);
```

This rule will also handle the case where the verification code has expired and return a suitable error message.

## Artisan commands

This package ships with a couple of artisan commands that allow you to send and verify verification codes.

```bash
# Send a verication code to the given phone number
php artisan verify-by-phone:send "+441174960123"

# Check that a given verication code is valid for the given phone number
php artisan verify-by-phone:verify "+441174960123" 1234
```

The verify command will return a console failure if verification fails.

## Testing

When writing tests, you likely do not want to make real requests to services such as Twilio. To support testing, we
provide a
`FakeVerificationService` that can be used to mock the verification service. To use it, you should set an `env` variable
in your `phpunit.xml` with the following value:

```xml

<env name='VERIFY_BY_PHONE_DRIVER' value='null'/>
```

Alternatively, you may manually swap out the integration in your test via using the `swap` method. The fake
implementation has some useful testing methods you can use:

```php
it('tests something to do with SMS verification', function () {
    $service = new FakeVerificationService();
    $this->swap(PhoneVerificationService::class, $service);
   
    // Customise what happens when calling `send`
    $service->sendUsing(fn () => throw new Exception('Something went wrong'));
    
    // Customise what happens when calling `verify`
    $service->verifyUsing(fn () => throw new Exception('Something went wrong'));
    
    // Throw a VerificationCodeExpiredException
    $service->actAsThoughTheVerificationCodeExpired();
    
    // Assert that a verification was "sent" on the given number
    $service->assertSentVerification(new PhoneNumber('+441174960123'));
});
```

You may execute this project's tests by running:

```bash
composer test
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Security Vulnerabilities

Please review [our security policy](../../security/policy) on how to report security vulnerabilities.

## Credits

- [Luke Downing](https://github.com/lukeraymonddowning)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.
